# recursion_ruby  

assignment to practice recursion  

1. Using iteration, write a method #fibs which takes a number and returns an array containing that many numbers from the fibonacci sequence. Using an example input of 8, this method should return the array [0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13].  

2. Now write another method #fibs_rec which solves the same problem recursively. This can be done in just 3 lines (or 1 if you’re crazy, but don’t consider either of these lengths a requirement… just get it done).  

## merge sort  

Build a method #merge_sort that takes in an array and returns a sorted array, using a recursive merge sort methodology.  

## various problems  

-If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23. Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.  

-Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:  
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ... By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.  

-The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29. What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?  

-A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99. Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.  

-2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder. What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?  

STACK OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVERFLOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOWWW.rip.com
